This video is a follow up to the previous video on routes of polynomials here.
I'm gonna go through the exercise for this video so it's probably a good idea to watch the previous
video before going through this one.
If you haven't already and I actually want to start this video by going back to this polynomial that
I discussed in the previous video.
So this was a degree to polynomial because the highest power here was X squared X X the power of two
and then it was kind of curious that we got two routes to this equation.
Now that is not a coincidence at all.
It turns out that in tenth degree polynomial has n roots.
So this is a s a degree to polynomial and there are two routes and basically the goal of this exercise
and I'll show you exactly what I want you to do in a moment but it's really to explore this principle
that an end degree polynomial has n roots.
That's actually something really important.
It's called the Fundamental Theorem of Algebra and that's what we are going to explore.
But before getting to the details of the exercise I just want to point out that this is a degree to
polynomial if you would remove this term.
It's a degree 1 polynomial because Implicit here is to the power of 1 x to the power of 1.
And then if you would remove this term this actually becomes a degree 0 polynomial because this is implicitly
X to the power of zero.
And here of course anything to the power of 0 is 1.
So the highest power of the variable that we have in here is zero so therefore this is a zero degree
polynomial.
It actually does have one coefficient but the degree of the polynomial is zero.
And with that in mind your goal in this assignment is to generate degree and polynomials and compute
the roots and then count the number of roots and then print them out in a message in a list that looks
something like this.
So you loop from degrees zero up to degree 9 polynomials and then of course you are going to see what
these numbers are here.
So again the goal is to just come up with some random polynomial.
It doesn't actually matter what the coefficients are.
Doesn't matter what the numbers are.
It just matters how many coefficients there are and then keep in mind again that a degree zero polynomial
has one coefficient.
So therefore a degree 5 polynomial actually has 6 coefficients 5 of them are multiplying x 2 increasing
powers and one of the coefficients is actually the one that multiplies X to the power of 0 which just
means that that coefficient is just hanging out on its own.
All right.
So pause the video work through this assignment and see if you can confirm the fundamental theorem of
algebra.
All right so I am going to get started in a new cell down here so let's see.
I'm going to start a loop is gonna be a for loop in range 1 to eleven and I'm going one to eleven because
I want to get the numbers 1 through 10 and I want to get the numbers 1 through 10 because that's always
how many coefficients I will need to get polynomials of degree 0 up to degree 9.
And that's because a degree 0 polynomial actually still has 1 coefficient.
All right.
So let's get started.
So now the question is what should we make these costs now.
You know you can do this in a slow way.
You could say like quests for a FS 4 for a 0 degree polynomial equals ones that just come up with a
random coefficient 1 and then cohorts for a 1 degree polynomial is let's say 3 and I don't I'm just
making up these numbers and so on but this is this is not really a scalable method.
This is not a this solution could work but it's not really a great solution.
So what I'm going to do is just generate new coefficients inside this loop and that's because as I mentioned
we don't actually care about the values the actual numbers of the coefficients.
We only care about how many coefficients there are.
So I'm gonna make this really simple and I'm just gonna say num pies NPD at a range from 1 to i plus
1.
And actually before even going further than let me I'm going to print this out for you so you can see
what this looks like.
These are now all of the coefficients.
So here is our first element in this loop which is producing a zero order polynomial or a degree zero
polynomial.
And this is in the second iteration of the loop.
Now we get a degree to polynomial and so on up to a degree 9 polynomial Now let's see I went to print
a degree dash and then we're gonna replace this with the uh with the.
No I.
So the I polynomial polynomial has uh substitution here roots.
Okay so now how am I going to go about working through this substitution.
So remember that a degree zero polynomial actually has one coefficient.
So that means that the length of coats minus one corresponds to the degree length of cliffs and then
minus one and then for the number of routes we can use.
Basically this function that I showed you up here so and Pi dot roots num pi dot roots but then of course
we don't actually care about the roots themselves we just care about how many there are.
So I'm going to say in case this in the function length I too many parentheses here C I think it's like
that.
Yeah.
All right.
Okay.
This error message says object of type function has no length of course the function roots itself doesn't
have a length.
We don't care about the function we care about the output of the function.
So I have to input costs.
All right.
Now let's try this again.
Okay so a degree zero polynomial has zero roots.
And in fact the rest of these answers are starting to get pretty boring because the degree of the polynomial
is the same as the number of roots.
So in this video with the exercise in the previous video on the roots of polynomials you learned about
the roots of polynomials and how to compute the roots in python using num Pi.
And in this exercise we confirmed the fundamental theorem of algebra which is that a degree in polynomial
has n roots.
We are going to continue working with polynomials and roots in the next video and in fact the next video
is going to contain a really important polynomial.
And that is called the quadratic equation.